So sorry for the delay on getting back to you but I finally got an extended period of time to review the links and tools. I think this will be really useful to me as a PO and as a resource for my grantees. So, after pouring through a lot of this, the article that ended up being most appropriate for the request I received was this one. Even though my grantee asked about equity, a follow up question helped me understand that their understanding of what AI tools were being used for was outdated. The article linked above helped to push core issues (like the move toward agentic AI, what AI can and can’t do in the classroom and the importance of ongoing AI literacy). It also listed some influencers, substacks, podcasts, etc. which was very helpful to my partner (and even our internal staff).

I really like the web interface of the Data and AI Enablement Hub. I definitely had some questions as I was poking around so I look forward to connecting. I was wondering if the sensemaking tools will eventually have a chat feature that will help lift up trends across the research. I saw that feature in some of the other tools and thought it was useful. 

On a totally different note, I was looking through the Gates US Program News today and saw a theme that we have been seeing for many months in our Enactment sites – tech and AI bans. I was wondering if we have tools that are looking at current research, news articles and other data through the lens of our strategy and flagging related trends and themes. I don’t often have time to read everything but when I do, I often see trends that signal clear headwinds or tailwinds for us. Ideally, a regular aggregation and strategy analysis would help us get well in front of some of the issues before they are more widespread. Happy to discuss this more. I have actually been generating some of these memos on my own as we are developing our subteam strategy but some of this is better to discuss on a larger team level.

I’m continuing to review and play around with the links you sent so feel free to keep passing resources along. It is certainly helping with my own understanding of the AI landscape.

